EJSWEB(1)                        User Commands                       EJSWEB(1)



NAME
       ejsweb  - Ejscript Application Generator for Server-Side JavaScript Web
       Applications.

SYNOPSIS
       ejsweb [--database DB]] [--keep] [--layout  layoutPage]  [--overwriteR]
       [--verbose] [commands ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  ejsweb  command generates Ejscript web applications, scaffolds and
       stubs. It is useful to quickly start web  applications  and  to  manage
       them once created.

       Ejsweb  will  create  directories and generate configuration and source
       code files which can then be manually edited as  required.   Ejsweb  is
       intelligent  and  will  not overwrite existing files, so you can safely
       edit and regenerate without losing your changes. You can overwrite your
       changes if you wish to by using the --overwrite switch.

       Ejsweb  can  also be used to run your application by invoking a config-
       ured web server.

GENERATING APPLICATIONS
       To start a new web application, run ejsweb to  create  the  application
       directory  and  generate  the  application  configuration and essential
       script files.  Use the -v (verbose) switch to trace  which  directories
       and files are being created.  For example:

             ejsweb -v generate app myApp

       This  will  will  create  a set of directories which have the following
       meaning:

             .tmp           - Temporary working directory
             .ejs           - State files used by ejsweb
             bin            - Programs and scripts
             config         - Configuration files
             controllers    - Controller source
             db             - Databases and scripts
             doc            - Documentation for the application
             logs           - Log files
             models         - Database model code
             messages       - Internationalization messages
             test           - Unit tests
             src            - Extra application source code
             utils          - Program utilities
             views          - View source files
             views/layouts  - View layout files
             web            - Public web directory
             web/images     - Public images
             web/themes     - Application HTML themes

       Most of these directories are initially empty, but  may  be  used  over
       time.  Ejscript  follows  conventions  where specific files are stored.
       This greatly simplifies configuring a web application.

       Ejsweb will also create some files which have the following meaning:

             config/config.ecf           - Application configuration file
             config/compiler.ecf         - Compiler configuration file
             config/database.ecf         - Database configuration file
             config/view.ecf             - View connector configuration file
             web/themes/default.css      - Default theme CSS file
             web/layout.css              - Default layout CSS file
             src/MyApp.es                - Top level application class
             controllers/Application.es  - Application base controller class
             views/layouts/default.ejs   - Default layout web page
             README                      - Documentation explaining files  and
            directories

GENERATING CONTROLLERS
       Controllers   are  the  primary  mechanism  for  responding  to  client
       requests. To generate a controller, run:

             ejsweb generate controller NAMES...

       Where NAMES... are the names of the controllers you want  to  generate.
       This  command  will create named controller source files under the con-
       trollers directory.  Each controller will contain an  empty  controller
       class  with  an  empty  index  action function.  Actions are controller
       functions that are invoked in response to client requests. You can edit
       the controller source to meet your needs.

GENERATING ACTIONS
       When  you create a controller, you can also (optionally) generate a set
       of named action functions.  To generate actions when you create a  con-
       troller, run:

             ejsweb generate controller NAME ACTIONS...

       Where  NAME is the controller name and ACTIONS ... are the names of the
       action functions to generate.

GENERATING SCAFFOLDS
       A scaffold is a generated set of views that provides add, edit and list
       functionality  for  a  database model.  Scaffolds are useful to quickly
       generate prototype web pages and actions for managing a datbase  table.
       To generate a scaffold:

             ejsweb generate scaffold MODEL CONTROLLER [ACTIONS ...]

       This will create a scaffold for the database model named MODEL and will
       generate a controller named CONTROLLER.  Without any explicit  ACTIONS,
       this  command  will  create  list and edit actions and views.  The edit
       action and view provide add and edit capability. The  list  action  and
       view,  provides  the ability to list the database table rows and select
       an entry to edit.

       If ACTIONS are provided, then action functions and views pages will  be
       created for the given names.

COMPILING
       Ejscript compiles models, views and controllers into Ejscript byte code
       modules. These are then loaded and  run  by  Ejscript  in  response  to
       incoming  client  requests.  Code  is compiled only once but can be run
       many times to service incoming requests.

       In development mode, Ejscript will automatically compile  the  relevant
       portions  of  the  application  if  the source code is modified. It can
       intelligently recompile views, actions, controllers and database models
       as required. However, you can also explicilty recompile portions or the
       complete appliction.

       Ejsweb can recompile everything via:
             ejsweb compile ....
       This will compile each controller  and  view  and  also  recompile  the
       application  and  module  source  code. Module files for each component
       will be generated.

       Ejsweb also provides options  for  you  to  individually  compile  con-
       trollers and views. To recompile named views or controllers:

             ejsweb compile view NAMES....

             ejsweb compile controller NAMES....


       Models are compiled with application code into a single module file. To
       recompile the models and application source code:

             ejsweb compile app.

       To compile the entire application and produce a single module file:

             ejsweb compile all.

       To compile stand-alone Ejscript web pages:

             ejsweb compile path/name.ejs....

       When compiling views, you can use the --keep  switch  to  preserve  the
       intermediate generated Ejscript source file.

RUNNING
       To run your application:

             ejsweb run

       This  requires  that  your config/config.ecf file be modified to define
       command to run your web server.

CLEANING
       To clean all generated module files:

             ejsweb clean

OPTIONS
       Ejsweb has the following command usage patterns:

             ejsweb clean
             ejsweb compile [all | app | controller names | model names | view
            names]
             ejsweb compile path/name.ejs ...
             ejsweb  generate  [app  name | controller name [action [, action]
            ...]| model name]
             ejsweb  generate   scaffold   model   [controller]   [action   [,
            action]...]
             ejsweb run

       --database connector
             Select  a database connector to use. Currently this switch is not
             implemented and sqlite is the only connector supported.

       --keep
             Preserve generated  intermediate  Ejscript  source  files.  These
             files are generated when blending views with layout pages.

       --layout layoutPage
             Change  the  name  of  the default layout page if a view does not
             explicitly specify a layout page.

       --overwrite
             Overwrite existing files.  Ejsweb  normally  will  not  overwrite
             existing  files.  This  is to preserve user changes to previously
             generated files.

       --verbose or -v
             Run in verbose mode and trace actions to the console.


REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to dev@embedthis.com.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Embedthis Software.  Ejscript is a trademark of
       Embedthis Software.


SEE ALSO
       ejsc, ejs, ejsmod, ejsvm



ejsweb                            March 2009                         EJSWEB(1)
